[Akio]: So, you're married...
but when's the wedding?
When I save up enough money.
@Heh! Why couldn't you
marryúlike a doctor or a lawyer,
@instead of some hobo?
Because I love him, of course.
@Don't be so serious.
You'llúmake your poor dad
depressed.
Oh, that reminds me,
I should start calling you
dad from now on, too.
@No way! That's disgusting!
Well, it only makes sense,
I mean, you really are
my father-in-law.
Ain't that right?
Dear old dad...
[retching]
Fine! If you wanna play that
game, then I'll call you son!
How's that, son?!
[pained yell]
Stop it, Dad, it hurts!
Son! Dad!
Um...
Wh-What's wrong?
I'm not quite sure what to
say at a time like this...
Huh? A time like what?
What do you mean?
[Nagisa]: Our new life
together starts today.
Should I say... Ready, set,
go! Or something like that?
[Tomoya]: No, that's weird. It's
not like a race or anything.
[Tomoya chuckles]
[Nagisa]: Hmm... You're right.
Then what should we say?
The idea is, we're
gonna live together
and support each
other and all...
[Tomoya]: So, something
like, let's give it our best?
In that case, I'd like
to make a vow,
to start things off
on a good note.
A vow?
Yep.
I, Nagisa Okazaki,
will no longer cry.
No matter how hard things get,
I vow to hang in there
and never give up.
But... even if I don't
cry when I'm sad,
I might do it when I'm happy.
That's just the kind
of person I am.
From now on, I'll try
my best to support you.
Thank you, and I'll try my best
to support you too, Nagisa.
[Nagisa]: Tomoya?
Ah! Wh-What is it?
[Nagisa]: Is it really okay
for me to take a bath first?
I don't want to
keep you waiting...
No, it's fine! I, uh,
I'll take a bath first tomorrow
and then we'll be
even, all right?
[Nagisa]:
Okay! That sounds fair.
In that case, I'll
see you when I get out!
Calm down! Come on, Tomoya,
you've heard her taking a bath
at her house plenty of times!
It's no big deal!
[water turns on]
[Nagisa screams]
What's wrong?!
[Nagisa]: I'm sorry! I didn't
know the water would be so cold!
[sighs]
It takes a while for
the water to get hot,
but it'll be fine in a minute.
Turn the faucet a
little at a time, okay?
[Nagisa]: Right. Got it!,
@Umm... sorry for the trouble.
I'll try to be quick.
No, it's fine. Please,
take your time.
[Nagisa]:
No way! I can't do that!
You have to get up early
tomorrow for work,
so you need to get to bed soon!
[Tomoya]: Huh?
Oh... you're right.
Guess I forgot.
[Nagisa]: I should
probably get to bed, too.
I'm going to startúlooking
for a job tomorrow.
@I can't just stay at home
and fool around all day
while you're working!
I have to earn my keep!
Nagisa... are you awake?
Yep. I'm still awake.
Are you serious about
looking for a job tomorrow?
Yep. But don't worry,
even if I'm not a housewife,
I'll still cook and clean.
I want to. Cause this is
my house too, right?
In that case, I'll take care
of some housework, myself.
Don't work too hard
and make yourself sick again.
I know I may not be very strong,
but I don't want to live
the rest of my life
like I'm weak, either.
Sorry, Tomoya. I don't know,
maybe I'm just being selfish.
No, I don't think that at all.
You've never asked
for anything from me
that I wasn't willing to give.
But that's the thing,
even if you don't mind,
I'm always asking you
to do things for me.
Yeah, but who cares?
You ask me to do easy stuff
like play ball with your dad,
or hold your hand or whatever.
Then would you hold my hand now?
Hm?
This is it. It's so sudden,
but... we're married now.
From now on, everything we do,
we do together, right?
But that being said,
I'm sure we'll have
our fair share of troubles.
As long as I have you, I can
handle anything, no problem.
Yeah, same here; You took the
words right out of my mouth.
With your support, I feel like
anything is possible.
I need you. You gotta
stay with me forever, okay?
Of course I'll stay.
[Nagisa]: Forever... wherever...
I'll always be with you.
[Tomoya]: And thus, Nagisa and
I began our new life together.
From now on, I have to work hard
to support the both of us.
But it doesn't feel like
a burden... it's a joy.
It gives me a reason
to try even harder.
After work, I go straight
home... as quickly as I can.
Because it's the home where
Nagisa is waiting for me...
Because it's our home.
[Nagisa]: Oh, by the way,
I gave Nishina a call earlier.
I got her number back
at my graduation ceremony,
but never got around
to calling her.
[Tomoya]: She's studying to
get into college now, right?
[Nagisa]: Yup. She's trying
to get into a music school.
She doesn't want
to burden her parents
with a bunch of tuition fees,
so she got a part-time job
to help cover the bills
if she gets accepted.
[Tomoya]: Really? Good for her.
[Nagisa]: It's nothing fancy,
but she's gonna work at
a family restaurant
that's opening next month.
I told her that I was looking
for a job, too and she said
that I should work with her.
At the restaurant?
Yeah. As a waitress.
It's actually a
big relief for me,
since I haven't had a lot
of luck looking for jobs.
[Tomoya]: I guess that's good.
It's nice to work with
someone you know, at least.
But don't tell your old man
and Sanae about it.
It'll probably just
stress them out.
[Nagisa]: I'm sure
they'll find out anyway...
You sure look like you're deep
in thought; What's on your mind?
Oh, I was just thinking about
something Miyazawa said.
[Tomoya]: Remember the thing
about the old town legend?
She said that whenever someone
achieves true happiness
an orb of light appears.
Of course, I don't know
if the legend is true or not,
but it makes me wonder if we
have one of those orbs of light
hovering around us right now.
She also said if you can manage
to catch one of those lights,
you'll have a wish granted.
If you got one...
what would you wish?
I dunno; I don't need anything.
There must be something.
Well, there's nothing
I can think of at least.
[gasps]
Actually, there might
be one thing.
Really?! What is it, then?
If you tell me,
then I'll buy it for you!
I think I want a baby...
[gasps]
You think that could
ever happen...?
[Tomoya]: What's up?
C'mon in! Ugh.
I thought you were a customer.
@I finished work early today,
soúl thought I'd pop in and say
hi.
Looks like you aren't too
happy to see me, though.
Hm? Hmph. No, I wouldn't
say that at all.
Why in fact, it's
just the opposite;
I've been dreaming, plotting,
waiting for this day to come!
I don't want to know, do I?
Let's go spy on
Nagisa at her work!
Yeah!
Why am I getting
dragged into this...?
Obviously, because it's
not cool for a man my age
to go to a family restaurant
and eat chocolate
parfaits by himself!
Who cares? And why does it
have to be a chocolate parfait?
C'mon kid!
You've never been to Nagisa's
restaurant before, right?
Now you can't tell me
you don't wanna see her
in her waitress outfit!
I do!
Good man!
But if word ever got out that
I went to take candid photos
of her at work, I'd be
the laughingstock
of the whole neighborhood.
That's why I'm dressed
as a super-hip youngster
to disguise myself
as one of your friends!
There's no way
that's gonna fool anyone.
Huh? People who don't
know me will just think
I'm some stylin' rap superstar.
Yo! Yo! I'm MC Akio!
Rhyming from the bakery
down the street,
the baddest baker that
you'll ever meet! Word!
Yeah!
You realize that rap's
giving yourself away, right?
Brotha, that's whack,
I better take that rap back!
[big sigh]
Whatever. Let's just go.
Slow it down, bro!
Wait for Akio!
Believe it or not,
this whole side of town
used to be covered in trees.
Now we got buildings
popping up everywhere.
Kinda crazy, isn't it? You never
know what's gonna change.
Hey. Something wrong?
Ah, no...
Let's go in.
@Hello, come on
in!úHuh? Is that...
Yo. Long time no see.
Oh, Hi Okazaki,
I haven't seen you in ages!
[Nishina]:
Who is your... friend?,
I'm the rapper without a name!
Hey Rie, the manager's
looking over here.
This way please. Would you
like a table for two?
I'm glad to see they're doing
such good business here.
In a couple of years, I bet
you won't even be able
to recognize this town.
Hm? Something wrong?
You look like you're kinda
down ever since we got here.
Oh... uh... nah, it's nothing.
[Nagisa]: How can I help you?
Tomoya...
[giggles]
Whoa!
Did you need to
tell me something?
Oh, no, it's nothing serious,
I just had some time off.
[Tomoya]: Thought I'd
come pay you a visit.
Nishina and Sugisaka said
some friends came to see me.
[Nagisa]: Ah, but I'm afraid
I haven't met you before...
Yo!
You can't tell who he is!?
How... could I? This is the
first time I've seen him.
Go ahead and take a look
at the menu, if you like.
I'll be back just in a minute.
I told you she wouldn't
be able to tell!
[bleak sigh]
Well, what can I say?
Like father, like daughter...
Aw. How nice,
you're flattering me.
So, have you two decided
on what you want yet?
@I'll take a hot coffeeÚthe
"rapper" wants a parfait.
@Whichever one is
biggest, úl guess.
All right, so that will be...
one hot coffee,
and a Chocolate and
Strawberry Mix Parfait.
Diamond Special, right?
The waiter will be
with you shortly.
[Waiter]: Thank you for waiting.
This is too big, yo!
You think I'm a pig, bro?
Better be frontin'
the bill for this ho'!
What? You said you wanted
a parfait, didn't you?
Really?! A Parfait?!
Does that sound like
something I would want?!
You said it on
the way here, I swear!
[Guy]: You see that? I told you,
she's really cute, right?
Hey. Hear that?
@As you can tell,
Furukawaúis pretty popular.
@Believe it or not,
we haveúquite a few customers
@come here justúto see her.
Rie, she's not Furukawa
any more, remember?
@Oh... I supposeúyou're right.
@She's Nagisa Okazaki, now.
["Rapper"]: Must be the
magic of the uniform.
She does look pretty cute...
even for her.
Rie...
Hey Princess, what time do
you get off work today?
How bout you and I
get some dinner?
I know a great place my treat.
Ah, I don't mean to be rude,
but I need to go straight
home after work.
[seething]
I'm sorry. I'd better
get back to work, now.
Hold on a sec!
Let's go.
Right.
@Wait, "Let's go?" Hey, hold on!
Don't get worked up.
We won't cause any trouble.
Come on, come with u-
Hey Bro, long time no see!,
Yeah, it's been ages, man!,
Never thought I'd run into
you in a place like this.
You're bothering the
other customers.
What do you say we
take this outside, huh?
Well, the food sucked, anyway!
Dude, you suck!
I just wanted to
bust some heads.
[Nagisa]: Um...
If you don't mind,
the manager would like
to have a word with you.
The manager?
I'm outta here, man,
hope you got a game plan!
Word to your mother!
Hey!
Sorry, Nagisa.
Guess we overdid it.
Uh, n-no... I'm happy
you helped me out!
They were being a real pain.
But, uh... I hate to think
that you might get
scolded by the manager...
Ah, it'll be fine.
Don't worry, I won't tell him
we're married, I'll just
pretend like I'm another
one of your fans.
[gasp] Don't do that!
You know, your wife
is a very hard worker;
We're happy to have
her on board.
He already knows!
I asked Nishina and
Sugisakaúafter I saw them
talking to you.
Sorry if I made you nervous,
but I thought this would beúa
good opportunity to meet you.
No, I'M sorry for causing
such a big commotion out there.
Not at all. Anyone else
would've done the same thing
in a situation like that.
As far as I'm concerned,
you were just sticking up
for your wife.
To be honest,
this isn't the first time
something like
that has happened.
But Nagisa is quite tactful;
She deals with those
situations like a real pro.
I guess she can
handle herself. Huh...
I know that her health isn't the
best and this is the first job
she's had... but she's
tough, she's smart,
and she's hard-working.
[Manager]: She's a great
employee... and a wonderful
addition to the team.
But I must say,
she has a tendency
to be a bit hard on herself
whenever she happens
to make a mistake.
If she ever get's depressed,
I'm counting on you to cheer
her up for me, all right?
Uh, sure. It's a
pleasure to meet you,
I feel like I should've
stopped by sooner.
My girl-ah, I'm sorry, I mean,
my wife... owes you a lot.
Thanks for taking
good care of her.
[short chuckle] Thank YOU
for taking such good
care of my waitress.
[Tomoya]: Looks like you're
really fitting in at your new
job.
@Uh-huh! It's hard work, but
itúreminds me of the drama club
@back when we put on our play.
You looked great in your
uniform, by the way.
My rapper friend thought so,
too. He said you were cute.
Your friend is crazy;
I'm not cute at all!
Nishina and Sugisaka
are way cuter than me...
I just remembered,
Nishina told me something
interesting the other day.
Hm?
[Nagisa]: Apparently, the high
school@is putting up a new
building.
And not like an add-on either,
they're actually going
to tear down the old one.
Huh?
Just think, the freshmen who
start two years from now...
@will get to study in a bright,
shiny new school!
I can't wait to see
what it looks like!
What's so great about that?
Huh?,
It's no good!
[tea kettle whistle]
Ah... I'm sorry.
I don't understand,
Tomoya; What's wrong?
I-it's nothing.
Really, just forget it.
You don't have to pretend
like nothing's wrong.
I don't know what I said,
but if I upset you,
then I want to apologize.
Did I do something
to make you mad?
It's not like I was mad
at you... just irritated.
It doesn't upset you, too?
Sure, the building may be old,
but that's where we had
the drama club, right?
We spent a lot of time together
there; It's full of memories.
[gasps] Oh yeah. You're right.
Now that you mention it,
it feels like a shame
to just tear it down like that.
Well, that's why I got
a little worked up.
Sorry.
I dunno why...
but I'm really high-strung
for some reason today.
No, it's fine. I didn't
realize I was touching
on a sensitive subject.
I didn't mean to upset you.
No... you didn't
do anything wrong.
Are you sure?
I don't know why
I lost it like that.
What's wrong? Why am I
so worried about this?
[Tomoya]: This town is changing.
It never bothered me before,
but I'm really starting
to feel it now.
Even we're starting to change.
@And one day, when everything
is different, I...
But can you still
love this place, anyway?
At last! My Nagisa photo
collection is complete!
@You're nuts, old man,
úwhen did you take all these?
Hmph! Let's just say
I ate enough of those
chocolate diamond whatever
parfaits to kill a man!
Ahh!
Sure wasn't easy.
Sometimes, I crawled
on the floor...
other times I hid
in the kitchen,
or clung from the ceiling
or stood on my head
to get just the right angle.
I'm surprised they
didn't kick you out.
Anyway, where did our
little ladies run off to?
I wanna show them the
fruits of my labor!
Dunno. Nagisa said she
needed to talk to Sanae
about something important
before we came.
But wait, you mean you're
gonna show them these?!
Uh-huh.
[crash]
Nagisa, what's wrong?!
Are you okay?
I'm sorry guys...
Just a little nauseous...
Nauseous, huh? What, Are you
pregnant or something?
Don't joke about that!
Hit a soft spot, huh?
Sorry kid, if you had any balls
she'd have a bun
in the oven already.
She does. We just found out.
Huh? Huh?
I'm not talking about baking.
Wait... you mean...
Nagisa and Tomoya
are having a child.
Congratulations.,
Wait, Sanae, when you say
they've having a child,
you mean a stork came to
visit them, or they picked it up
in a cabbage patch or a fairy
godmother granted their wish
or something?
[panicked breathing]
N-no, Dad that's not
how it works!
Tomoya and I are married
now, so we, ah, uhm...
[Tomoya]: Wha-!? Nagisa...
no... don't say it...!
We have sex
and sex makes babies!
[Tomoya]: It takes a special
kind of girl to say that to her
parents.
Actually, it takes
a special kind of human
to say that at all.
You're one in
a million, Nagisa...
@She hasn't had her
periodúin two months.
@I think it's safe to
sayúthat this is for real.
[Akio]: Little creep!
You're dead!
I mean, congratulations, kid.
Uh... Th-thanks.
Nice to meet you,
I hope I can help out.
Hello, I'm Nagisa Okazaki.
Thanks for taking
the time to stop by.
Hi, I'm her husband, Tomoya.,
You're gonna have it, right?